okay we've got some breaking news to
bring you and masub zy has joined me for
that the director of the gulf studies
Center here at Qatar University Maru
here is what we're learning at the
moment there uh according to us
officials that the Israelis have
essentially agreed to a six- week
ceasefire all of this of course in the
context of the last few weeks where
there have been talks active talks
between indirect between Israel and
Hamas mediated by the US Qatar and Egypt
talks about getting to a ceasefire we
know the positions were very far apart
in the beginning and we know that
there's been well we figured that there
was some kind of improvement but we
didn't exactly know where we were the
latest is this the US officials saying
Israel has essentially signed on to a
deal that would have provide for a six
we ceasefire in Gaza what do you know
what I know is that until this afternoon
there was a serious um discussion about
this but there was a a um two main issue
which is Hamas wanted to be accepted one
is the withdraw from northern Gaza
Israeli withdraw the Trove from Gaza and
secondly allowing the gazan people to go
back to the north which basically around
you talk about 700,000 plus something to
go back so those two points uh they were
the major issue in addition to that the
equivalency stop stop there for a second
I want to make sure because this is all
developing and this is all new I want to
make sure that that we we're all um in
agreement with this Hamas Hamas wants
Israel to withdraw from northern Gaza
yes this is a change from what they were
asking a couple weeks ago which was
Israel withdraw from all of Gaza yes and
Hamas wants Palestinian Israel to allow
Palestinians to go back to the north but
you said 700,000 meaning not all
Palestinians no we talk we talk about
Northern Gaza used to have 1.4 million
yes 700,000 they went to the South
because of Israeli pressure now Hamas
says those people should come back to
the northern Gaza so basically everyone
in the northern Gaza should go back
that's that's the point and in exchange
for that exchange for that 6 weeks uh of
ceasefire and then addition and the
third issue which there was I would say
in in there was a huge difference about
or the huge discussion about it is uh
the equivalency of each captive of the
Palestinians so used to say that's
that's another issue used to talk about
14 or 110 yeah this is the ratio of how
many Palestinian prisoners you relased
from Israeli jails for one Israeli ctive
released from Gaza seem this issue was
solved last week because they talked
about I think 40 45 Israelis or 40
Israelis uh with 400 something
Palestinians including uh I would say an
important figures within the Palestinian
prisoners now what's happening in the
last 24 hours I can understand it in two
context one one the flower Mass
massacres which basically killed 100
Palestinian and the reaction of that
which basically had more pressure on the
Americans Europeans to do something very
quick we have just a few seconds left
yeah and the second point is actually
this kind of humanitarian crisis would
be basically is crising rapidly and
there's there should be a solution
quickly okay that's all really
interesting we're going to leave it at
that for now we're going to gather more
information bring back and give our
viewers a Full Slate of news especially
on this breaking news that according to
us officials Israelis have essentially
signed up on a deal that would involve a
six week ceasefire this would be to be
uh implemented sometime before Ramadan
which should start around March 10th so
in the coming days and that's where we
are in this story for now we'll bring
you much more at the very top of the
hour on aljazera there is of course
always uh more information on our
website aljazeera.com weather is next
then you've got inside story which looks
at the issue of growing calls for a
ceasefire in Gaza exactly what we were
just discussing we'll bring you more on
that at the top of the hour stay with
aljaz